In this demo, we are going to take a look at subscriptions on AppSync,
and get real‑time notification whenever data changes on our backend.
If we take a look at our Schema,
the API creation wizard already created three subscriptions for our mutations.
We have the onCreateGlobomanticsTasks, onUpdateTasks,
and then the onDeleteTasks.
From our client application,
we are going to subscribe so whenever data changes on the
backend we can update the UI automatically.
Now, let's head to our client application and implement real‑time notifications.
First things first,
we need to define our subscription schemas on the client side,
just like we did with querying and mutating data.
We are going to define the subscriptions under the graphql
folder in the Subscriptions.ts file.
The CreateTasksSubscription is specified as onCreateGlobomanticsTasks,
so we need to specify our query as follows: subscription,
then subscription name, after which we specify the data that we want to receive.
In this case, I'm receiving all the data for the task,
and, as always, we return the parsed QraphQL query using the graphql‑tag helper,
and export the query.
We need to do the same for the update and delete subscription.
The update subscription is called onUpdateGlobomanticsTasks, and
the delete is called onDeleteGlobomanticsTasks.
For all three subscriptions, we are requesting all the properties for the task,
but if we wanted, we can decide to query only the fields that we need.
For example, you might want to decide to only query the ID.
We can do that from here.
Now, let's navigate to the index.ts file and implement our logic.
First,
we need to import the subscription queries to our
index.ts file from our Subscription.ts file.
We are importing the CreateTaskMutation,
UpdateTaskMutation, and the DeleteTaskMutation.
The AppSync client has built‑in support for subscriptions,
and with just a couple of lines we can listen for
real‑time data changes from our backend.
Let's navigate to our application load function
where we create our AppSync client.
To subscribe, use subscribe method on the AppSync client.
As a parameter, we need to specify the query,
so for subscribing to the taskCreatedSubscription,
we do client.subscribe and provide the createTaskSubscription query.
These will return an observable,
to which we can subscribe and listen for changes.
Now, to get the changes we need again to subscribe on the taskCreatedObservable,
and inside the subscribe we provide the next function so any time a
change is detected the next function is called.
As a parameter, it will have input a newly created task,
and in the body of the function we are outputting the newly created
task to the console and then loading all the tasks.
We could just append this new task to the list of
tasks and display it in our UI.
For this demo, to keep it simple,
I'm going to load all the tasks from the server by
calling the loadTasks function.
Now let's listen for the update and delete subscriptions.
Just like we did for the createTaskSubscription,
we do the same for the update and the delete,
except we pass in different queries.
Now, let's save the changes and test our application.
As soon as our application loads, if we look at the Network tab,
we can see that the websocket connection is made from our
client application to the AppSync backend.
This will be responsible for sending real‑time data to our application.
Now, let's open a second incognito tab and try to make changes.
As soon as we make changes on one side,
the changes will be displayed on the other.
Now let's add a new test.
Let's name it realtime test, and as soon as we create it,
it should be displayed on the other tab.
And indeed, as soon as we created the test,
the other tab got the real‑time update notification and updated its content.
Now let's try to update our test.
Let's name it realtime test 2.
And as soon as we save, we can see the change on the other tab.
Now, finally, let's delete our test,
and now the test is removed from the other tab as well.
AppSync makes it very easy to subscribe to changes on our backend.
We can add subscriptions to all our mutations on the backend or to only the ones
that we need real‑time information when they are triggered,
and then we see this notification on the client applications in real time so we can have the best user experience.